So if we have jobs in our GitHub Actions Workflow
that produce output that should be stored,
we're dealing with artifacts.
And to store these artifacts we can simply add a new step.
Now, this step can of course receive any name of your choice
and I'll name it Upload Artifacts,
because that is what we'll be doing.
And then here we don't run a script
but instead we use an action.
To be precise,
there is an official Upload Artifact action
developed and provided by the GitHub team.
And this action does just what the name implies.
It allows us to upload artifacts.
As always on the official Repository,
you can learn more about this action
and how this action may be used and configured.
But I'll also show you how to use it in this course section.
So here we want to use this actions/upload-artifact action.
And at the point of time I'm recording this,
I want to use version three.
And then we can add the with key to
provide some additional configuration.
And some additional configuration is needed here
for this action
because I must give my artifacts a name.
This will then be useful for retrieving those artifacts,
especially if you want to do that automatically
in subsequent jobs.
Which is something we'll do soon.
And here I'll simply name it "dist-files"
but this name is totally up to you, of course.
And then we have to add a path.
And this path simply describes where to
find the files that should be stored.
And you can store as many files as you need to.
In the official documentation of this Repository
you see that you can specify multiple paths here,
so that multiple files would be organized
under a single artifact identifier.
And all these files could then be accessed manually
or automatically from other steps.
You can also exclude certain paths
if you know that some files should be included,
but some other files
that would be part of the other paths
should be excluded.
Again, the official documentation covers all the use cases
and all the configuration items you can set.
Here, in my case,
I just want to store the files in a dist folder.
But to also simulate how multiple files
would be stored and organized,
and how we could then retrieve them,
I will actually add the dist folder
and then also add another path here,
even though it's technically not needed.
And store in a package.json file
as an artifact as well.
Again, this is redundant,
I'm just doing this so that we also see
how multiple files and paths
could be put into a single artifact.
Please note, that if you have
multi-line instructions like this,
you need to add the pipe symbol here,
and then you can put your different instructions
into different lines here.
Now with that, if we saved this,
we manipulated this job here, this build job,
such that we store degenerated output
under the dist-files identifier.
And now to see this in action
we just have to create a new commit here.
So I will stage my files and create a commit
where I say
"added upload artifacts step".
And then we can push this.
And since we activate this Workflow
upon pushing to the main branch,
and I am pushing to the main branch here,
this will also automatically run this Workflow already,
as we can see here under actions.
And there, if we wait for this Workflow to finish,
we'll also be able to retrieve those stored artifacts.
So let's wait for this Workflow to finish here.
Here we go, the Workflow finished.
And now you can see the artifacts here
at the bottom of this page.
Here you see the dist-files artifact,
and of course that is the identifier we chose here
in our Workflow definition file.
And we can click on this artifact to download it.
So now it's downloaded as a ZIP file,
and if we extract that ZIP file,
we get a folder that includes the dist folder,
with all its contents, and the package.json file.
Because those were the artifacts I added here.
So that's how we can use this Upload Artifact action.
Now here, I'll tweak it a little bit
and actually get rid of this definition.
I'll comment it out so that we can still see it.
But I'll change the path here
to actually just include the dist folder
with all its contents,
because that is all that's needed here.